Change buffer API descriptions to use new style (#824)
KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs: adoc/chapters/programming_interface.adoc

The SYCL [code]#buffer# class template provides the common reference semantics
(see <<sec:reference-semantics>>).

==== Buffer interface

The constructors and member functions of the SYCL [code]#buffer# class template
are listed in <<table.constructors.buffer>> and <<table.members.buffer>>,
respectively.
The additional common special member functions and common member functions are
listed in <<table.specialmembers.common.reference>> and
<<table.hiddenfriends.common.reference>>, respectively.

> Each constructor takes as the last parameter an optional SYCL

Reviewer: This text has vanished entirely. There are words later which say much the same thing though.

propList)`.

_Effects (4):_ Construct a SYCL [code]#buffer# instance with the
[code]#hostData# parameter provided.
The buffer assumes exclusive access to this memory for the duration of its
lifetime.

The constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# will use the [code]#allocator# parameter
provided when allocating memory on the host.

The host address is [code]#const T#, so the host accesses can be read-only.
However, the [code]#typename T# is not const so the device accesses can be both
read and write accesses.
Since, the [code]#hostData# is const, this buffer is only initialized with this
memory and there is no write back after its destruction, unless the
[code]#buffer# has another valid non-null final data address specified via the
member function [code]#set_final_data()# after construction of the
[code]#buffer#.

The range of the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# is specified by the
[code]#bufferRange# parameter provided.

Zero or more properties can be provided to the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer#
via an instance of [code]#property_list#.

'''

.[apititle]#Construct from a container#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-ctor-container]
----
template <typename Container>

> buffer(Container& container, AllocatorT allocator,                 (1)

Reviewer 2: > Thanks, @gmlueck! I believe I've addressed most of the initial comments, but I'm still a little fuzzy on the placement of the callouts.

The callouts mostly look good, except they should be moved to the first line of each function definition.  Using this one as an example, move the "(1)" one line earlier, so that it's on the same line as the `template` keyword.  The justification should be the same as what you have now.  For example, this "(1)" starts in column 68.  It should still be in column 68 when you move it one line earlier.

buffer(const T* hostData, const range<Dimensions>& bufferRange,    (4)
       const property_list& propList = {});
----
_Effects (1):_ Construct a SYCL [code]#buffer# instance with the
[code]#hostData# parameter provided.
The buffer is initialized with the memory specified by [code]#hostData#, and the
buffer assumes exclusive access to this memory for the duration of its lifetime.
The constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# will use the [code]#allocator# parameter
provided when allocating memory on the host.
The range of the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# is specified by the
[code]#bufferRange# parameter provided.
Zero or more properties can be provided to the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer#
via an instance of [code]#property_list#.

_Effects (2):_ Equivalent to `buffer(hostData, bufferRange, AllocatorT{},
propList)`.

_Effects (3):_ Construct a SYCL [code]#buffer# instance with the
[code]#hostData# parameter provided.
The buffer assumes exclusive access to this memory for the duration of its
lifetime.

The constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# will use the [code]#allocator# parameter
provided when allocating memory on the host.

> The host address is [code]#const T#, so the host accesses can be read-only.
> However, the [code]#typename T# is not const so the device accesses can be both
> read and write accesses.
> Since, the [code]#hostData# is const, this buffer is only initialized with this
> memory and there is no write back after its destruction, unless the
> [code]#buffer# has another valid non-null final data address specified via the
> member function [code]#set_final_data()# after construction of the

Reviewer 3: I don't think the bit about the host vs device access adds very much here.  We could keep it as non-normative, but I think it's likely to confuse people more than it helps -- we shouldn't have to explain what `const` means.

I think replacing this entire paragraph with the below would be a lot clearer:

```suggestion
_Remarks_: The buffer will not write back to any host memory
unless requested via the member function [code]#set_final_data()#.
```

Author: Remarks seem to be a separate segment of the description, so to avoid having to associate it with the constructors by their callouts, I added a few more words to the beginning.

[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-ctor-container]
----
template <typename Container>                                      (1)
buffer(Container& container, AllocatorT allocator,
       const property_list& propList = {});

template <typename Container>                                      (2)
buffer(Container& container, const property_list& propList = {});
----
Preconditions: [code]#container# is a contiguous container.

Constraints: Available only when:

* [code]#std::data(container)# and [code]#std::size(container)# are well formed;

* the return type of [code]#std::data(container)# is convertible to [code]#T*#;
  and

* [code]#Dimensions == 1#.

_Effects (1):_ Construct a one dimensional SYCL [code]#buffer# instance from the
elements starting at [code]#std::data(container)# and containing
[code]#std::size(container)# number of elements.
The buffer is initialized with the contents of [code]#container#, and the buffer
assumes exclusive access to [code]#container# for the duration of its lifetime.

Data is written back to [code]#container# before the completion of
[code]#buffer# destruction if the return type of [code]#std::data(container)# is

> not [code]#const#.

Reviewer 3: I think we should turn this into a _Remark_, because it's not really an effect of the constructor.

returns.

When [code]#hostData# is empty, construct a SYCL buffer with uninitialized
memory.

The constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# will use the [code]#allocator# parameter
provided when allocating memory on the host.
The range of the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# is specified by the
[code]#bufferRange# parameter provided.
Zero or more properties can be provided to the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer#
via an instance of [code]#property_list#.

_Effects (4):_ Equivalent to `buffer(hostData, bufferRange, AllocatorT{},
propList)`.

'''

.[apititle]#Construct from iterators#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-ctor-iterator]
----
template <typename InputIterator>                                      (1)
buffer(InputIterator first, InputIterator last, AllocatorT allocator,
       const property_list& propList = {});

template <typename InputIterator>                                      (2)
buffer(InputIterator first, InputIterator last,
       const property_list& propList = {});
----
_Effects (1):_ Create a new allocated 1D buffer initialized from the given
elements ranging from [code]#first# up to one before [code]#last#.

> The data is copied to an intermediate memory position by the runtime.
> Data is not written back to the same iterator set provided.
> However, if the [code]#buffer# has a valid non-const iterator specified via the
> member function [code]#set_final_data()#, data will be copied back to that
> iterator.

Reviewer 3: I don't think the part about the intermediate memory position is helpful.  We don't have this wording for the `hostMem` overload, and the inconsistency is weird.

I think we should re-use the same wording as the `hostMem` constructor, which I proposed changes to above:

```suggestion
_Remarks_: The buffer will not write back to any host memory
unless requested via the member function [code]#set_final_data()#.
```

[code]#info::device::mem_base_addr_align#.
Violating this requirement causes the implementation to throw an
[code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code from the
[code]#accessor# constructor (if the accessor is not a placeholder) or from
[code]#handler::require()# (if the accessor is a placeholder).
If the accessor is bound to a <<command-group>> with a secondary queue, the
sub-buffer's alignment must be compatible with both the primary queue's device
and the secondary queue's device, otherwise this exception is thrown.

_Throws:_

* An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if [code]#b# is
a sub-buffer.

* An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if
[code]#subRange# corresponds to a a non-contiguous region of [code]#b#.

* An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if the sum of
[code]#baseIndex# and [code]#subRange# in any dimension exceeds the parent
buffer [code]#b# size [code]#bufferRange# in that dimension.

'''

[[sec:buffer-member-funcs]]
==== Member functions

.[apititle]#buffer::get_range#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-range]
----
range<Dimensions> get_range() const;
----

> _Returns:_ A range object representing the size of the buffer in terms of number
> of elements in each dimension as passed to the constructor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Returns:_ A [code]#range# representing the number of elements in the buffer.
```

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::byte_size#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-byte-size]
----
size_t byte_size() const noexcept;
----
_Returns:_ The size of the buffer storage in bytes.
Equal to [code]#size()*sizeof(T)#.

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::size#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-size]
----
size_t size() const noexcept;
----
mode and target in the command group buffer.
The value of target can be [code]#target::device#,

> [code]#target::constant_buffer# or [code]#target::host_task#.

Reviewer 3: This looks broken, but I can't tell if it's just GitHub being weird.

Author: Ah, good catch. This looks like a copy-paste error. It should be better now.

----
Deprecated by SYCL 2020.

_Effects:_ Equivalent to [code]#return byte_size()#.

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::get_allocator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-allocator]
----
AllocatorT get_allocator() const;
----
_Returns:_ The allocator provided to the buffer.

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::get_access#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-access]
----
template <access_mode Mode = access_mode::read_write,                          (1)
          target Targ = target::device>
accessor<T, Dimensions, Mode, Targ> get_access(handler& commandGroupHandler);

template <access_mode Mode = access_mode::read_write,                          (2)
          target Targ = target::device>
accessor<T, Dimensions, Mode, Targ>
get_access(handler& commandGroupHandler, range<Dimensions> accessRange,
           id<Dimensions> accessOffset = {});

template <typename... Ts> auto get_access(Ts...);                              (3)

template <typename... Ts> auto get_host_access(Ts...);                         (4)
----
_Returns (1):_ A valid [code]#accessor# to the buffer with the specified access
mode and target in the command group buffer.
The value of target can be [code]#target::device#,

> [code]#target::constant_buffer# or [code]#target::host_task#.

Reviewer 3: Should these be preconditions or constraints?

Author: Great, thanks! That has been addressed.

_Returns (2):_ A valid [code]#accessor# to the buffer with the specified access
mode and target in the command group buffer.
The accessor is a <<ranged-accessor>>, where the range starts at the given
offset from the beginning of the buffer.
The value of target can be [code]#target::device#,

> [code]#target::constant_buffer# or [code]#target::host_task#.

Reviewer 3: Same question as above.

_Returns (3):_ A valid [code]#accessor# as if constructed via passing the buffer
and all provided arguments to the [code]#accessor# constructor.

Possible implementation:

> [code]#+return accessor{*this, args...};+#

Reviewer 3: We should remove this.

_Returns (4):_ A valid [code]#host_accessor# as if constructed via passing the
buffer and all provided arguments to the [code]#host_accessor# constructor.

Possible implementation:

> [code]#+return host_accessor{*this, args...};+#

Reviewer 3: You can remove this too.

_Throws (2):_ An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if
the sum of [code]#accessRange# and [code]#accessOffset# exceeds the range of the
buffer in any dimension.

'''

.[apititle]#Deprecated buffer::get_access#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-access-deprecated]
----
template <access_mode Mode>                                                   (1)
accessor<T, Dimensions, Mode, target::host_buffer> get_access();

template <access_mode Mode>                                                   (2)
accessor<T, Dimensions, Mode, target::host_buffer>
get_access(range<Dimensions> accessRange, id<Dimensions> accessOffset = {});
----
Deprecated in SYCL 2020.
Use [code]#get_host_access()# instead.

_Returns (1):_ A valid host [code]#accessor# to the buffer with the specified
access mode and target.

_Returns (2):_ A valid host [code]#accessor# to the buffer with the specified
access mode and target.
The accessor is a <<ranged-accessor>>, where the range starts at the given
offset from the beginning of the buffer.

> The value of target can only be [code]#target::host_buffer#.

Reviewer 3: Should this be a precondition or a constraint?

described in <<sec:buf-sync-rules>> and <<sec:sharing-host-memory-with-dm>>.

If there is nowhere to write-back, using this function does not have any effect.

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::is_sub_buffer#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-is-sub-buffer]
----
bool is_sub_buffer() const;
----
_Returns:_ [code]#true# if this SYCL [code]#buffer# is a sub-buffer and
[code]#false# otherwise.

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::reinterpret#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-reinterpret]
----
template <typename ReinterpretT, int ReinterpretDim>                       (1)
buffer<ReinterpretT, ReinterpretDim,
       typename std::allocator_traits<AllocatorT>::template rebind_alloc<
           ReinterpretT>>
reinterpret(range<ReinterpretDim> reinterpretRange) const;

template <typename ReinterpretT, int ReinterpretDim = Dimensions>          (2)
buffer<ReinterpretT, ReinterpretDim,
       typename std::allocator_traits<AllocatorT>::template rebind_alloc<
           ReinterpretT>>
reinterpret() const;
----
_Preconditions (2):_ Available when [code]#(ReinterpretDim == 1)# or when
[code]#\((ReinterpretDim == Dimensions) && (sizeof(ReinterpretT) ==

> sizeof(T)))#.

Reviewer 3: Preconditions are for UB. Conditions that affect availability should be constraints.

The constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# will use the [code]#allocator# parameter
provided when allocating memory on the host.

The host address is [code]#const T#, so the host accesses can be read-only.
However, the [code]#typename T# is not const so the device accesses can be both
read and write accesses. Since, the [code]#hostData# is const, this buffer is
only initialized with this memory and there is no write back after its
destruction, unless the [code]#buffer# has another valid non-null final data
address specified via the member function [code]#set_final_data()# after
construction of the [code]#buffer#.

The range of the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer# is specified by the
[code]#bufferRange# parameter provided.

Zero or more properties can be provided to the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer#
via an instance of [code]#property_list#.
'''

.[apititle]#Construct from a container#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-ctor-container]
----
template <typename Container>
buffer(Container& container, AllocatorT allocator,
       const property_list& propList = {}); (1)

template <typename Container>
buffer(Container& container, const property_list& propList = {}); (2)
----

> Constraints:_ Available only if [code]#Container# must be a contiguous
> container, that is the following requirements must be met:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Constraints:_ Available only if [code]#Container# is a contiguous
container, that is the following requirements must be met:
```

[code]#hostData# address.

_Effects (1):_ Constructs an [code]#use_host_ptr# property object.

'''

.[apidef]#property::buffer::use_mutex#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:property-buffer-use-mutex]
----
namespace sycl::property::buffer {
class use_mutex {
  use_mutex(std::mutex& mutexRef);

  std::mutex* get_mutex_ptr() const;
};
} // namespace sycl::property::buffer
----

The [code]#use_mutex# property is valid for the SYCL [code]#buffer#,
[code]#unsampled_image# and [code]#sampled_image# classes.
The property adds the requirement that the memory which is owned by the SYCL
[code]#buffer# can be shared with the application via a [code]#std::mutex#
provided to the property.
The mutex [code]#m# is locked by the runtime whenever the data is in use and
unlocked otherwise.
The contents of [code]#hostData# are guaranteed to reflect the contents of the
buffer when the [code]#std::mutex# is unlocked by the runtime.

'''

.[apidef]#property::buffer::use_mutex constructor#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:property-buffer-use-mutex-ctor]
----
use_mutex(std::mutex& mutexRef);
----

_Effects:_ Constructs a SYCL [code]#use_mutex# property instance with a

> reference to [code]#mutexRef# parameter provided.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
reference to [code]#mutexRef#.
```

We could also consider just calling this something like `m`, but I'm not sure.

'''

.[apidef]#property::buffer::use_mutex::get_mutex_ptr#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:property-buffer-use-mutex-get-mutex-ptr]
----
std::mutex* get_mutex_ptr() const;
----

> _Returns:_ The [code]#std::mutex# which was specified when constructing this
> SYCL [code]#use_mutex# property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Returns:_ A pointer to the [code]#std::mutex# provided when constructing this property.
```

Kind of a nit, but I like when we can avoid being verbose.  I considered "provided at construction" too, but I don't know if that's clear enough.

[code]#buffer# is specified by the [code]#bufferRange# parameter provided.
Zero or more properties can be provided to the constructed SYCL [code]#buffer#
via an instance of [code]#property_list#.
'''

.[apititle]#Construct from iterators#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-ctor-iterator]
----

> template <class InputIterator>

Reviewer 3: For these functions accepting `InputIterator`, should there be _Constraints_?  They definitely need to be iterators.  Do they need to be contiguous/random access/whatever?  Does the `value_type` need to be convertible to the buffer type?

queue's device and the secondary queue's device, otherwise this exception is
thrown.

_Throws:_

* An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if [code]#b#
is a sub-buffer.

* An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if
[code]#subRange# corresponds to a a non-contiguous region of [code]#b#.

- An [code]#exception# with the [code]#errc::invalid# error code if the sum
of [code]#baseIndex# and [code]#subRange# in any dimension exceeds the parent
buffer [code]#b# size [code]#bufferRange# in that dimension.

> '''

Reviewer 3: This contradicts the _Preconditions_.  If something is a _Precondition_ then violating it results in undefined behavior.  Each of these conditions should either be a precondition or be a condition in which an exception is thrown.

[[sec:buffer-member-funcs]]
==== Member functions

.[apititle]#buffer::get_range#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-range]
----
range<Dimensions> get_range() const;
----
_Returns:_ A range object representing the size of the buffer in terms of number
of elements in each dimension as passed to the constructor.
'''

.[apititle]#buffer::byte_size#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-byte-size]
----
size_t byte_size() const noexcept;
----
_Returns:_ The size of the buffer storage in bytes. Equal to
[code]#size()*sizeof(T)#.
'''

.[apititle]#buffer::size#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-size]
----
size_t size() const noexcept;
----
_Returns:_ The total number of elements in the buffer. Equal to
[code]#+get_range()[0] * ... * get_range()[Dimensions-1]+#.
'''

.[apititle]#buffer::get_count#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-count]
----
size_t get_count() const;
----
Deprecated by SYCL 2020.

> _Returns:_ The same value as [code]#size()#.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Effects:_ Equivalent to [code]#return size()#.
```

'''

.[apititle]#buffer::get_size#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-get-size]
----
size_t get_size() const;
----
Deprecated by SYCL 2020.

> _Returns:_ The same value as [code]#byte_size()#.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Effects:_ Equivalent to [code]#return byte_size()#.
```

accessor<T, Dimensions, Mode, Targ> get_access(handler& commandGroupHandler); (1)

template <access_mode Mode = access_mode::read_write,
          target Targ = target::device>
accessor<T, Dimensions, Mode, Targ>
get_access(handler& commandGroupHandler, range<Dimensions> accessRange,
           id<Dimensions> accessOffset = {}); (2)

template <typename... Ts> auto get_access(Ts...); (3)

template <typename... Ts> auto get_host_access(Ts...); (4)
----
_Returns (1):_ A valid [code]#accessor# to the buffer with the specified access
mode and target in the command group buffer. The value of target can be
[code]#target::device#, [code]#target::constant_buffer# or
[code]#target::host_task#.

_Returns (2):_ A valid [code]#accessor# to the buffer with the specified access
mode and target in the command group buffer.  The accessor is a
<<ranged-accessor>>, where the range starts at the given offset from the
beginning of the buffer.  The value of target can be [code]#target::device#,
[code]#target::constant_buffer# or [code]#target::host_task#.

_Returns (3):_ A  valid [code]#accessor# as if constructed via passing the
buffer and all provided arguments to the [code]#accessor# constructor.

> Possible implementation:
> 
> [code]#+return accessor{*this, args...};+#

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

I don't think we need possible implementations in the spec.

Author: Good question. I think I agree, but I didn't want to change the current descriptions too much. I'll happily remove it if people agree though.

_Returns (4):_ A valid [code]#host_accessor# as if constructed via passing the
buffer and all provided arguments to the [code]#host_accessor# constructor.

> Possible implementation:
> 
> [code]#+return host_accessor{*this, args...};+#

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

----
void set_write_back(bool flag = true);
----
_Effects:_ Dynamically forces or cancels the write-back of the data of a buffer
on destruction according to       the value of [code]#flag#.

Forcing the write-back is similar to what happens during a normal write-back as
described in <<sec:buf-sync-rules>> and <<sec:sharing-host-memory-with-dm>>.

If there is nowhere to write-back, using this function does not have any effect.
'''

.[apititle]#buffer::is_sub_buffer#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-is-sub-buffer]
----
bool is_sub_buffer() const;
----
_Returns:_ [code]#true# if this SYCL [code]#buffer# is a sub-buffer and
[code]#false# otherwise.
'''

.[apititle]#buffer::reinterpret#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:buffer-reinterpret]
----
  template <typename ReinterpretT, int ReinterpretDim>
  buffer<ReinterpretT, ReinterpretDim,
         typename std::allocator_traits<AllocatorT>::template rebind_alloc<
             ReinterpretT>>
  reinterpret(range<ReinterpretDim> reinterpretRange) const;
----
_Preconditions (2):_ Available when [code]#(ReinterpretDim == 1)# or when
[code]#\((ReinterpretDim == Dimensions) && (sizeof(ReinterpretT) == sizeof(T)))#.

> _Effects:_ Creates a reinterpreted SYCL [code]#buffer#. The buffer object being

Reviewer 3: I don't think we should have both an _Effects_ and a _Returns_ for this.  _Returns_ seems to be sufficient.

Author: I think the benefit of having Effects as well is that I could document some of the common (mostly sub-buffer) behavior.

as the corresponding [code]#hostData# address.

_Effects (1):_ Constructs an [code]#use_host_ptr# property object.

'''

.[apidef]#property::buffer::use_mutex#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:property-buffer-use-mutex]
----
namespace sycl::property::buffer {
class use_mutex {
  use_mutex(std::mutex& mutexRef);  (1)

  std::mutex* get_mutex_ptr() const; (2)
};
} // namespace sycl::property::buffer
----

The [code]#use_mutex# property is valid for the SYCL [code]#buffer#,
[code]#unsampled_image# and [code]#sampled_image# classes. The property adds the
requirement that the memory which is owned by the SYCL [code]#buffer# can be
shared with the application via a [code]#std::mutex# provided to the property.
The mutex [code]#m# is locked by the runtime whenever the data is in use and
unlocked otherwise. The contents of [code]#hostData# are guaranteed to reflect
the contents of the buffer when the [code]#std::mutex# is unlocked by the
runtime.

_Effects (1):_ Constructs a SYCL [code]#use_mutex# property instance with a
reference to [code]#mutexRef# parameter provided.

_Returns (2):_ The [code]#std::mutex# which was specified when constructing this

> SYCL [code]#use_mutex# property.

Reviewer 3: I think you should just treat it like another class, like you did for `buffer`.  There should be a source block showing the whole class, then separate `apidef` blocks for the constructor and any member functions.

> SYCL [code]#use_mutex# property.

Author: I've split up the two properties with values. Let me know what you think!

> SYCL [code]#use_mutex# property.

Reviewer 3: This looks much better to me.  Thanks!
